---
title: Becoming a Tech Lead
tags:
    - tech
    - career
date: 2024-03-03
draft: true
---
The **tech lead** role has been rather well-defined lately. Most people seem to
agree that being a tech lead requires an engineer to have a high level of
understanding and technical proficiency, to help remove blockers for the
engineering team, to write documentation, to mentor more junior engineers, and
to be able to make techincal and architectural decisions to help move their team
forward. However, rather than adding to the number of blogs posts about what a
tech lead does, I'd like to talk about what you might experience when moving
into a tech lead role for the first time.

One of the things that nobody tells you about software engineering is how much
your job will fundamentally change as you progress from a junior engineer to a
senior engineer. I'm in my fifth full year as a software engineer, and I've just
taken on the responsibilities of a tech lead for a small team with three other
developers. In all honesty, it has been a difficult transition. As a junior
engineer (and as a mid-level engineer), the bulk of your responsibility is to
take ~~cups of coffee~~ tickets and turn them into working features. You are
fully integrated with the rest of your dev team. Even if you're not pairing with
them regularly, you are probably helping them out often by answering questions
and reviewing code.

When you start working as a tech lead, you will still be working as an
individual contributor, but it will be a much smaller fraction of your
day-to-day. You will be meeting with your product team much more frequently.
You'll probably be involved in regular meetings with stakeholders. You might
have regular meetings with other tech leads and engineering managers in your
organization. As a result, you won't spend as much time with the rest of your
engineering team. You'll feel more involved with your product team, **and that's
okay.** It will feel weird for a few weeks. Before, your primary responsibility
was writing code. Now, that might be half of your job.

