---
title: The Game of School
date: 2024-03-03
tags: 
    - tech
    - career
layout: layouts/post.njk
draft: true
---
Starting a career in software engineering is an interesting journey. Many of you
have probably seen the "A Day in My Life as a Software Engineer" videos from
engineers at huge tech companies like Amazon or Google, and I think it gives a
bit of a warped perspective on what your early career will look like. They give
a decent glimpse of what your day-to-day might look like, but they often fall
short of telling you how your career as a professional will differ from your
career as a student.

One of the most important revelations I have had in my career was when I figured
out the key difference between school and work. Many thanks to [Ken
Kousen](https://www.kousenit.com/) for articulating this in his book [_Help Your
Boss Help You_](https://pragprog.com/titles/kkmanage/help-your-boss-help-you/).
It's a short read and is packed with great information for young professionals,
but none have helped me more than this one. 

When you're in school, your teachers (if they're good ones) all have the same
goal: teaching you the course material. This is especially clear in grade
school. Funding for the school is often tied to standardized testing results. If
the school as a whole performs poorly, the school's funding could be reduced. Is
this logic backwards? Does it have the potential to create a downward spiral on
poorly-funded and under-performing schools? Yeah! But it's the reality of the
system: teachers and school administrators have a financial incentive to "teach
to the test."

Knowing this, it's easy to figure out why teachers ask their students questions.
Teachers need to make sure that you, the student, know the correct answer.
They're quizzing you. As students, we learn over years of schooling not only how
to find the answer, but also to show how you got to your answer. Partial credit
for showing your work incentivizes students to give long, verbose answers. Many
students figure out how this system works, and we end up getting really good at
**the game of school.**

In the corporate world, the game of school no longer applies. Let's say your
manager comes to you and asks "Hey, do you know how to add a new view to our
database schema?" If you haven't used views before, you might not know how to
answer at all. If you have a basic understanding, you might try to come up with
an answer that might earn you half points on a SQL pop quiz. 

The secret that completely changed my perspective on questions from my manager
is that if someone in the office asks you a question, it's because they **don't
know the answer.** You might get questions from managers or PMs asking about the
status of a ticket or story. For a long time, I heard this kind of question and
thought it was a slightly passive-aggressive way of telling me "Hey! Hurry up!"
More often than not, the ask the question because a stakeholder asked for an
update, and they **don't know the answer.** 

Shifting your mindset to understand questions this way is difficult at first.
But the beauty of it is that viewing a question through this new lens makes
answering the question less stressful. The only reason that they're asking you
the question is so they can move forward. The other important secret is that
they don't need a perfect answer. I 